So, getting back to the story
of features and apps.
For about 10 to 12 years,
the phones were going through really
rapid changes in terms of the designs and
the sensors that they were getting and
the features that they were enabling.
The most important thing was phones
were getting much smaller and
they would get much longer
standby time and talk time.
And the charges for making voice calls
was also dropping very, very fast.
So you didn't need to use your cell
phone as a portable pay phone and email.
That is,
you turn off as soon as you make the call.
I actually remember doing
that with my earlier phones.
Then there were flip phones and
phones with touch screens.
And phones of various shapes and colors.
And then there were phones with
two screens and it was almost like
the phone business was going through
some kind of an identity crisis.
There were phones specifically for
business folks.
That was a very big,
attractive selling point.
And some of the features were more
nerdy like, there was this Samsung
phone that you could use to
write phone number in the air.
That's the first time
an accelerometer got into the phone.
The one you see next to
that is the first iPhone,
in which they were using the same
accelerometer for portrait and
landscape mode to look at the pictures
that you took with your camera.
So by this time, less than ten years ago,
what exactly a smartphone is and its look
and feel, got pretty much established.
And now we're going to
be talking about all
the features that could
be a mobile platform,
as opposed to features in
the network that we covered before.